>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, APRIL 19:
THE ITALIAN COAST GUARD SEARCHES
FOR SURVIVORS AFTER A FISHING
BOAT PACKED WITH HUNDREDS OF
MIGRANTS CAPSIZES IN THE
MEDITERRANEAN.
AMERICAN MILITARY TRAINERS
ARRIVE IN UKRAINE, PROMPTING AN
ANGRY RESPONSE FROM THE KREMLIN.
A SCANDAL AT THE F.B.I. FORENSIC
INVESTIGATORS ROUTINELY
EXAGGERATED THE EVIDENCE THEY
HAD AGAINST DEFENDANTS,
INCLUDING SEVERAL ALREADY PUT TO
DEATH.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
HACKERS SEIZING PERSONAL DATA
AND HOLDING IT FOR RANSOM.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
MEMBERS OF ITALY'S COAST GUARD
ARE SEARCHING FOR SURVIVORS
AFTER A FISHING BOAT CROWDED
WITH MIGRANTS OVERTURNED TODAY.
AS MANY AS 700 PEOPLE ARE FEARED
DEAD.
THE ACCIDENT HAPPENED IN THE
MEDITERRANEAN, OFF THE COAST OF
LIBYA.
THE VICTIMS WERE TRYING TO GET
FROM THERE TO ITALY.
LATE TODAY, ITALY'S CABINET MET
IN EMERGENCY SESSION.
SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR,
AN ESTIMATED 1,500 PEOPLE HAVE
DIED MAKING THE CROSSING TO
ITALY.
IN LIBYA TODAY, ANOTHER ATROCITY
LINKED TO ISIS.
THE MUSLIM EXTREMIST GROUP
RELEASED A VIDEO ONLINE SHOWING
THE BEHEADING OF 15 ETHIOPIAN
CHRISTIANS AND THE SHOOTING OF
15 OTHERS IT HAD CAPTURED.
ISIS CALLED THE VICTIMS"
CRUSADERS."
MIXED SIGNALS FROM IRAN TODAY.
THAT COUNTRY'S SUPREME LEADER,
AYATOLLAH ALI KHAMENEI SAID THE
UNITED STATES HAD CREATED "A
MYTH" ABOUT HIS COUNTRY TRYING
TO DEVELOP A NUCLEAR WEAPON.
MEANWHILE, THE DEPUTY COMMANDER
OF IRAN'S ISLAMIC REVOLUTIONARY
GUARD SAID IRAN WOULD NOT ALLOW
INSPECTIONS OF MILITARY SITES,
CALLING THE IDEA "A NATIONAL
HUMILIATION."
LAST WEEK, DEFENSE SECRETARY ASH
CARTER SAID ANY FINAL DEAL MUST
INCLUDE THOSE INSPECTIONS.
DURING A TELEVISION INTERVIEW
TODAY, THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS
COMMITTEE INSISTED THAT ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN BE PHASED
OUT, NOT ELIMINATED IMMEDIATELY,
IF A FINAL DEAL IS REACHED.
>> I THINKS IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
THAT THE PHASE, THE SANCTIONS BE
PHASED, SO THAT WE SEE HOW IRAN
IS BEHAVING AND WHETHER THEY'RE
ACTUALLY LIVING UP TO THE
ARRANGEMENT.
ONE OF THE BIGGEST CONCERNS
PEOPLE HAVE IS THAT IRAN TODAY
HAS THE ABILITY THROUGH COVERT
ACTION TO DO ANYTHING THAT THEY
WISH.
>> Sreenivasan: TURNING NOW TO
EUROPE:
ABOUT 300 AMERICAN MILITARY
TRAINERS HAVE ARRIVED IN
UKRAINE, PROMPTING AN ANGRY
RESPONSE FROM THE KREMLIN.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS, WE ARE
JOINED NOW VIA SKYPE FROM MOSCOW
BY ANDREW ROTH.
HE HAS REPORTED THE STORY FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES.
SO WHAT ARE THE AMERICAN
ADVISORS DOING ON THE
GROUND?
>> HI, HARI.
THE AMERICAN ADVISOR WHO
CAME FROM IN THE HUDSON 73rd
AIRBORNE BASED IF ITALY AND
THEY COME TO TRAIN UKRAINE'S
FAT GUARD B A THOUSAND
MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL
GUARD ARE ENGAGED IN IN
COMBAT IN THE EAST OF THE
COUNTRY AN THEY'RE GOING TO
BE WORKING ON WHAT THEY SAID
WERE MILITARY TRAINING AS
WELL AS SPECIFICALLY
FOCUSING ON THE OFFICER
CORPS.
SO THIS IS A VERY NEW UNIT
THAT THE NATIONAL GUARD, SO
THE OFFICERS A LOT OF THEM
HAVEN'T HAD MUCH TRAINING
YET AT ALL.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THIS IS
SHORT OF SUPPLYING ANY ARMS
OR WEAPONS TO THE UKRAINE.
THE UNITED STATES HAS
REFUSED TO DO THAT, RIGHT?
>> SO FAR THEY HAVE.
THE UNITED STATES HAS
SUPPLIED SOMEWHAT IS YOU
WILL NONLETHAL AID TO UKRAINE.
THAT INCLUDES PROMISES TO
SUPPLY HUMVEES BOTH ARMOURED
AND UNARMOURED DRONES BUT THEY
HAVEN'T YET AGREED TO SUPPLY
LETHAL AID, WEAPONS IN
PARTICULAR, ANTI-TANK WEAPONS
THAT BOTH PEOPLE WHO ARE ON THE
FRONT LINESING SOLDIERS WHO ARE
ON THE FRONT LINES, AS WELL AS
OFFICIALS IN KIEV
DESPERATELY WANT.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT'S
THE REACTION IN MOSCOW WHERE
ARE YOU?
>> THE REACTION IN MOSCOW
HAS BEEN STRONG NEGATIVE
SUGGESTIONS BY PRESIDENT
PUTIN SPOKESMEN THAT THIS
COULD DESTABILIZE THE
SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY.
WE INTERPRET THAT TO MEAN
NEW CONFLICTS OR NEW
OUTBREAK OF VIOLENCE IN THE
SOUTHEAST ALTHOUGH THERE
HAVE BEEN A LOT OF TERRORIST
ACTS IN SEVERAL CITIES IN
UKRAINE AS WELL.
BUT THE KREMLIN HAS REALLY
DRAWN A RED LINE AT
SUPPLYING LETHAL AID.
SO I THINK THAT IT'S NOT
ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN THAT THE
ARRIVAL OF THESE MILITARY
TRAINERS IS GOING TO CHANGE
THE SITUATION IN THE
SOUTHEAST.
WHAT SEEMS FAR MORE
IMPORTANT TO THEM IS THAT
COUNTRIES LIKE THE UNITED
STATES AND EUROPE AND EVEN
ISRAEL DON'T SUPPLY WEAPONS
TO YOU CURRENT.
THAT SEEMS TO BE THEIR REAL
RED LINE.
>> ALL RIGHT, ANDREW ROTH
FROM "THE NEW YORK TIMES"
JOINING US VIA SKYPE FROM
MOSCOW.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS.
>> Sreenivasan: IN A DECISION
WITH POSSIBLE REPERCUSSIONS FOR
THE WORLD ECONOMY, CHINA'S
CENTRAL BANK ANNOUNCED NEW
BANKING RULES TODAY.
THEY'RE MEANT TO HELP SPUR BANK
LENDING AND TO COMBAT SLOWER
ECONOMIC GROWTH.
EVEN SO, SOME ANALYSTS
QUESTIONED WHETHER THE MOVE
WOULD ENABLE CHINA TO REACH ITS
7% GROWTH TARGET FOR 2015, ITS
LOWEST IN NEARLY A QUARTER OF A
CENTURY.
RECENT COMMENTS BY F.B.I.
DIRECTOR JAMES COMEY HAVE LED TO
A DIPLOMATIC FLAP BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES AND POLAND.
POLAND'S FOREIGN MINISTRY
SUMMONED AMERICA'S AMBASSADOR IN
WARSAW FOR A MEETING TODAY AFTER
COMEY SAID THAT NAZI GERMANY HAD
BEEN AIDED BY ACCOMPLICES IN
POLAND AND OTHER COUNTRIES.
THE POLISH EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON
SENT A LETTER TO THE FBI
DIRECTOR SAYING HE HAD, IN THEIR
WORDS, ACCUSED POLES "OF
PERPETRATING CRIMES WHICH NOT
ONLY DID THEY NOT COMMIT BUT
WHICH THEY THEMSELVES WERE
VICTIMS OF.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO SOUTH
AFRICA, THIS WEEKEND THE LEADER
OF THAT COUNTRY, JACOB ZUMA,
CANCELED AN OVERSEAS TRIP.
THIS FOLLOWING DAYS OF VIOLENCE
THERE AGAINST IMMIGRANTS.
FOR MORE, WE ARE JOINED NOW VIA
SKYPE FROM JOHANNESBURG BY DAVID
SMITH OF THE GUARDIAN NEWSPAPER.
IS IS DAVID, WE SHOULD SAY
YOU ARE ON BATTERY POWER.
YOU ARE TALKING TO US DURING
A BLACKOUT.
WHAT HAS BEEN HAPPENING
THERE OVER THE PAST FEW
WEEKS,?
WHAT IS THE SOURCE OF THIS
VIOLENCE?
>> THERE HAS BEEN AN
OUTBREAK OF XENOPHOBIC
VIOLENCE TARGETING MANY
AFRICAN FOREIGN NATIONALS
LIVING IN SOUTH AFRICAN AND
AT LEAST SIX DEATHS AND THE
U.N. ESTIMATES MORE THAN
5,000 PEOPLE DISPLACED, MANY
TO TRANSIT CAMPS SET UP
AROUND MAJOR CITIES.
IT'S WHAT MANY WOULD SAY IS
DUE TO UNDERLYING PROBLEMS
OF UNEMPLOYMENT AND POVERTY.
AND HAS BEEN CONDEMNED BY
THE SOUTH AFRICAN GOVERNMENT
AN MANY CIVIL SOCIETY LEADERS.
AND REALLY A FLARE-UP AND A
TREND THAT WE HAVE SEEN OVER
AT LEAST TEN YEARS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PEOPLE
THAT ARE BEING ATTACKED,
WHERE ARE THEY FROM?
>> ZIMBABWE IN MANY CASES,
MALAWI.
MOZAMBIQUE, MANY FROM
NIGERIAN.
A FEW OTHER AFRICAN
COUNTRIES.
SOMETIMES THEY ARE FLEEING
CONFLICTS AND VIOLENCE IN
THEIR HOMELAND.
SOMETIMES THEY ARE ECONOMIC
MIGRANTS.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW ABOUT IS
THE UNEMPLOYMENT SITUATION
IN SOUTH AFRICA THAT IS
PROMPTING SOME OF THIS
VIOLENCE.
>> THE OFFICIAL UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE IS ABOUT ONE IN FOUR
PEOPLE.
MOST EXPERTS WOULD SAY THAT
IS ACTUALLY AN UNDERSTATEMENT,
IT IS CLOSER ACTUALLY TO ONE
IN THREE AND THE WORST
AFFECTED OF ALL ARE YOUNGER
BLACK PEOPLE, WHERE SOME
ESTIMATE HALF.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS HAS
ALSO PROMPTED A REACTION
FROM SOUTH AFRICA'S
NEIGHBORS.
TELL ME A BIT ABOUT THAT.
>> YES, THERE HAS BEEN
DEMONSTRATIONS AT SEVERAL
SOUTH AFRICAN EMBASSIES
AROUND AFRICA, THERE HAS
BEEN AN INCIDENT WHERE SOUTH
AFRICAN VEHICLES WERE PELTED
WITH STONES IN NEIGHBORING
MOZAMBIQUE.
THERE HAVE BEEN THREATS TO
CLOSE SOUTH AFRICAN
BUSINESSES.
THIS SADLY HAS REALLY DRIVEN
DIVISIONS BETWEEN SOUTH
AFRICA AND THE REST OF THE
CONTINENT.
>> Sreenivasan: DAVID SMITH
JOINING US VIA SKYPE FROM
DARK JOHANNESBURG TONIGHT,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: TURNING TO NEWS
IN THIS COUNTRY:
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY
SAID TODAY THE RECENT ARREST OF
AN OHIO MAN FOR ALLEGEDLY
PLOTTING A TERROR ATTACK
ILLUSTRATES THE HEIGHTENED
THREAT NOW FACING THE UNITED
STATES.
>> IT'S THE FIRST FOREIGN
FIGHTER CASE WE'VE SEEN OF AN
AMERICAN CITIZEN TRAVELLING TO
SYRIA, TRAINING WITH AL QAEDA,
AL NUSRA, AND THEN RETURNING TO
THE UNITED STATES UNDER
INSTRUCTIONS BY AL QAEDA
OPERATIVES TO CONDUCT A
TERRORIST ATTACK ON AMERICAN
SOIL.
THAT IS WHAT'S HUGELY
SIGNIFICANT ABOUT THIS CASE.
>> Sreenivasan: IT'S BEEN A
VIOLENT FEW DAYS IN PARTS OF
CHICAGO.
AUTHORITIES THERE SAY AT LEAST
TWO PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND AT
LEAST 18 WOUNDED IN A SERIES OF
SHOOTINGS SINCE FRIDAY
AFTERNOON.
THE NUMBER OF SHOOTINGS WERE UP
40% DURING THE FIRST THREE
MONTHS OF 2015 COMPARED TO LAST
YEAR.
THE NUMBER OF MURDERS IS UP 29%.
AUTHORITIES IN NEIGHBORING
INDIANA ARE HAVING A DIFFICULT
TIME CONTROLLING THAT H.I.V.
OUTBREAK FROM SHARED NEEDLE USE.
THE STATE'S DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
HEALTH SAYS THERE ARE NOW 130
DOCUMENTED CASES, WITH 24 NEW
CASES REPORTED THIS PAST WEEK.
INDIANA HAS IMPLEMENTED A NEEDLE
EXCHANGE PROGRAM TO TRY TO CURB
THE OUTBREAK.
THAT 61-YEAR-OLD FLORIDA POSTAL
WORKER WHO VIOLATED NATIONAL
AIRSPACE BY LANDING HIS
GYROCOPTER ONTO THE GROUNDS OF
THE CAPITOL IS NOW BACK IN
FLORIDA UNDER HOUSE ARREST.
DOUG HUGHES'S NEXT SCHEDULE
COURT APPEARANCE IN WASHINGTON
IS THREE WEEKS FROM NOW.
THE INCIDENT HAS PROMPTED A
FULL-SCALE SECURITY REVIEW SINCE
HUGHES WAS ABLE TO FLY UNDER THE
RADAR NEAR SO MANY MONUMENTS
THROUGH RESTRICTED AIRSPACE.
THE NATION'S SECOND MOST
POPULOUS STATE, TEXAS, IS ON THE
VERGE OF PASSING LEGISLATION
THAT WOULD ALLOW RESIDENTS THERE
WITH CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES
TO OPENLY CARRY THE GUNS IN
HOLSTERS.
THE BILL CLEARED THE TEXAS HOUSE
FRIDAY.
THE STATE SENATE HAD ALREADY
PASSED A SIMILAR VERSION OF THE
BILL.
THE GOVERNOR HAS SAID HE WILL
SIGN ANY LEGISLATION THAT
EXPANDS SECOND AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
AND IMAGINE TRAVELING FROM
CHICAGO TO NEW YORK BY TRAIN IN
JUST MORE THAN TWO HOURS.
THAT MIGHT BE POSSIBLE SOMETIME
IN THE FUTURE IF A TRAIN NOW
BEING TESTED IN JAPAN IS PUT TO
USE IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE MAGNETIC LEVITATION BULLET
TRAIN HIT A RECORD 366 MILES AN
HOUR DURING A TEST IN THAT
COUNTRY A FEW DAYS AGO.
ITS MANUFACTURER SAYS IT WANTS
TO EXPORT THE TECHNOLOGY TO THE
UNITED STATES.
NEWS FROM WASHINGTON TONIGHT
THAT FOR NEARLY TWO DECADES
DURING THE 1980S AND 1990S, TOP
FBI FORENSIC INVESTIGATORS
ROUTINELY GAVE FLAWED TESTIMONY
OVERSTATING THE EVIDENCE THEY
HAD AGAINST CRIMINAL DEFENDANTS.
IN MORE THAN A DOZEN CASES, THE
DEFENDANTS WERE LATER EXECUTED
OR DIED IN PRISON.
SPENCER HSU BROKE THE STORY IN
TODAY'S WASHINGTON POST.
HE JOINS US NOW FROM WASHINGTON.
SO I SAY THIS IS A WATERSHED
MOMENT IN ONE OF THE
COUNTRY'S LARGEST FORENSIC
SCANDALS AM BREAK THIS DOWN
FOR US.
>> WHAT HAS BEEN FOUND HAS
BEEN AS YOU SAY THAT FOR
MORE THAN TWO DECADES,
NEARLY EVERY EXAMINER AND
NEARLY EVERY CRIMINAL TRIAL
IN WHICH FBI EXPERTS GAVE
TESTIMONY AGAINST CRIMINAL
DEFENDANTS, THEY OVERSTATED
THE STRENGTH, THE THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF A MATCH.
>> Sreenivasan: SO YOU SAY
SAID THAT ABOUT A QUARTER OF
ALL THE WRONGFUL CONVICTIONS
OF PEOPLE THAT HAVE BEEN
EXONERATED LATER ON, THE
TESTIMONY OF HAIR EXAMINERS
OR BITE MARK COMPARISONS
HAVE ACTUALLY HELPED SWAY
JURIES AND JUDGES.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
OUT OF ABOUT 329 DNA
EXAMINATIONS, MORE THAN A
QUARTER INVOLVED INVALID
FORENSIC SCIENCE.
ONE OF THE ISSUES HERE IS
THAT UNLIKE DNA WITH
DEVELOPED BY SCIENTISTS FOR
SCIENTISTS, A LOT OF THE
EARLIER PATTERN-BASED
TECHNIQUES, COMPARING HAIR,
FIBER, BITE MARKS, EVEN
TRACING BULLETS TO BEING
FIRED FROM SPECIFIC WEAPONS
WERE DEVELOPED IN THE LAB BY
LAW ENFORCEMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S JUST
SAY, FOR EXAMPLE, IF A
DEFENSE ATTORNEY FIGURES OUT
THAT SOME OF THE EVIDENCE
USED IN A TRIAL FOR THEIR
CLIENT INCLUDES TESTIMONY
FROM THE FBI INSPECTORS,
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN FOR
THEM.
DOES THAT MEAN THE JUDGE
AUTOMATICALLY GRANT A NEW
INVESTIGATION OR RETRIAL?
>> NOT NECESSARILY.
THE FBI HAS OFFERED TO
RETEST IN CASES WHERE AREAS
WERE MADE, DNA.
IF DNA EVIDENCE IS
AVAILABLE.
THEY HAVE OFFERED TO DROP
PROCEDURAL BARS TO POST
CONVICTION APPEALS AS WELL.
BUT FOR STATES, MOST STATES
MAKE IT DIFFICULT TO
CHALLENGE OLD CONVICTIONS IN
THE ABSENCE OF DNA.
ONLY CALIFORNIA AND TEXAS
HAVE LAWS THAT PERMIT IT IN
CASES WHEN FORENSIC EVIDENCE
IS RECANTED OR UNDERMINED BY
SCIENTIFIC ADVANCES.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT IS THE
FBI GOING TO DO TO FIX THIS?
>> THEY HAVE SAID THAT THEY
WILL DO A ROOT CAUSE
ANALYSIS AFTER ALL THE
REVIEWS ARE COMPLETED AM
AGAIN, THEY HAVE OFFERED TO
RETEST DNA WHEN DNA EVIDENCE
IS AVAILABLE AND TO ALLOW
FEDERAL CASES TO BE BROUGHT.
THEY ARE AGREEING TO REVIEW
SCIENTIFIC TESTIMONY AND LAB
RESULTS, STANDARDS TO MAKE
CLEAR WHAT IS ERRONEOUS AND
WHAT IS ACCEPTABLE IN 19
OTHER TECHNIQUES THEY SAY
THEY DID THIS FOR HAIR IN
2012 WHEN OUR REPORTS
SURFACED.
AND THEY LAUNCHED THIS
REVIEW.
THE BALL NOW GOES TO STATE
AUTHORITIES AS WELL AS TO
THE COURTS TO DETERMINE IF
THEY WILL CHANGE THESE
PRECEDENTS MORE RIGOROUSLY
CHALLENGE THE ADMISSIBILITY
OF SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE.
>> Sreenivasan: SPENCER HSU
OF "THE WASHINGTON POST,"
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE PIECE.
YOU NO DOUBT HAVE HEARD ABOUT
RECENT COMPUTER ATTACKS AGAINST
MAJOR CORPORATIONS INCLUDING
TARGET, SONY, J.P. MORGAN CHASE,
AND ANTHEM HEALTH.
BUT CRIMINALS HAVE ALSO TURNED
THEIR ATTENTION TO MUCH SMALLER
TARGETS, EVEN INDIVIDUAL
COMPUTER USERS.
THEY'RE NOW USING SOFTWARE TO
SEIZE VALUABLE PERSONAL DATA AND
HOLD IT "HOSTAGE" UNTIL A RANSOM
IS PAID.
AS THE NEWSHOUR'S WILLIAM
BRANGHAM REPORTS, TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS HAVE
FALLEN PREY TO THESE RANSOMWARE
ATTACKS.
>> Reporter: INNA SIMONE IS
RETIRED, A MOTHER AND
GRANDMOTHER FROM RUSSIA WHO NOW
LIVES OUTSIDE OF BOSTON.
LAST NOVEMBER, HER HOME COMPUTER
STARTED ACTING STRANGELY.
>> MY COMPUTER WAS WORKING
TERRIBLY.
IT WAS NOT WORKING, I MEAN, IT
WAS SO SLOW.
>> Reporter: A FEW DAYS LATER,
WHILE SEARCHING THROUGH HER
COMPUTER FILES, INNA SAW DOZENS
OF THESE MESSAGES, THEY WERE ALL
THE SAME.
THEY READ: "YOUR FILES ARE
ENCRYPTED.
TO GET THE KEY TO DECRYPT THEM,
YOU HAVE TO PAY $500."
HER EXACT DEADLINE - DECEMBER
HER EXACT DEADLINE - DECEMBER 2
AT 12:48 P.M., WAS JUST A FEW
DAYS AWAY.
ALL HER FILES WERE LOCKED, TAX
RETURNS, FINANCIAL PAPERS,
LETTERS, EVEN THE PRECIOUS
PHOTOS OF HER GRANDDAUGHTER ZOE.
INNA COULDN'T OPEN ANY OF THEM.
>> IT SAYS, "IF YOU WON'T PAY,
WITHIN ONE WEEK OR WHATEVER,
YOUR FINE WILL DOUBLE.
IF YOU WON'T PAY BY THEN, ALL
YOUR FILES WILL BE DELETED AND
YOU WILL LOSE THEM FOREVER AND
NEVER WILL GET BACK.
>> Reporter: INNA SIMONE, LIKE
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF OTHERS,
HAD BEEN VICTIMIZED BY WHAT'S
KNOWN AS A "RANSOMWARE" ATTACK.
HACKERS, WHO LAW ENFORCEMENT
BELIEVE COME MAINLY FROM EASTERN
EUROPE OR RUSSIA, MANAGE TO PUT
MALICIOUS SOFTWARE ONTO A
VICTIM'S COMPUTER, OFTEN VIA AN
EMAIL ATTACHMENT OR A
COMPROMISED WEBSITE.
THAT SOFTWARE THEN ALLOWS THE
HACKERS TO LOCK UP YOUR FILES,
OR YOUR ENTIRE COMPUTER, UNTIL
YOU PAY THEM A RANSOM TO GIVE IT
BACK.
RANSOM DEMANDS HAVE RANGED FROM
A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS TO SEVERAL
HUNDRED THOUSAND.
JUSTIN CAPPOS IS A COMPUTER
SECURITY EXPERT AT NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY.
>> IT WILL ACTUALLY LOCK YOU OUT
OF THE FILES, THE DATA, ON YOUR
COMPUTER.
SO YOU'D BE ABLE TO USE THE
COMPUTER BUT THOSE FILES HAVE
BEEN ENCRYPTED BY THE ATTACKER
WITH A KEY THAT ONLY THEY
POSSESS.
IT'S FRUSTRATING BECAUSE YOU
KNOW THE DATA IS THERE.
YOU KNOW THE FILES ARE THERE.
YOU KNOW YOUR PHOTOS AND
EVERYTHING IS THERE AND COULD BE
ACCESSIBLE TO YOU.
BUT YOU HAVE NO WAY OF BEING
ABLE TO GET AT IT BECAUSE OF
THIS ENCRYPTION THAT THE
ATTACKERS ARE USING.
>> Reporter: INNA WAS PANICKED.
COMPUTER TECHNICIANS WERE NO
HELP.
SHE DIDN'T WANT TO CALL THE
POLICE, HER HUSBAND AT FIRST
SAID DON'T PAY THE RANSOM, BUT
SHE WANTED THOSE FILES BACK.
IN THEIR '¡RANSOM NOTE', THE
HACKERS WANTED TO BE PAID IN
BITCOIN, THE LARGELY UNTRACEABLE
DIGITAL CURRENCY, AND HAVE IT
PUT INTO THEIR ANONYMOUS
ACCOUNT.
INNA HAD NEVER HEARD OF BITCOIN,
BUT THE HACKERS, IN ONE OF THEIR
MANY TOUCHES OF WHAT YOU MIGHT
CALL "CUSTOMER SERVICE,"
PROVIDED ALL SORTS OF HELPFUL
FACTS AND LINKS AND HOW-TO
GUIDES ABOUT BITCOIN.
>> IF YOU SEE THE RANSOM NOTE
YOU CAN SEE, "OH, THEY TRY TO
REASSURE YOU ABOUT BITCOIN."
WE HAVE GOT SCREEN SHOTS OR HERE
IS A LINK TO SOME KIND OF A
GUIDE THAT TALKS YOU THROUGH THE
WHOLE PROCESS, AND HERE'S A LIST
OF PROVIDERS WITH A LITTLE KIND
OF YELP-LIKE REVIEWS NEXT TO
EACH ONE THAT KIND OF EXPLAIN
THEIR STRENGTH AND WEAKNESSES.
IT'S INCREDIBLY SOPHISTICATED.
>> Reporter: AFTER DAYS OF
DEBATE, INNA DECIDED TO PAY. SHE
SENT A MONEY ORDER TO A BITCOIN
SELLER, BUT IT WAS THANKSGIVING,
AND A HUGE SNOWSTORM HIT BOSTON,
WHICH MEANT THE CHECK ONLY
ARRIVED THE AFTERNOON BEFORE HER
DEADLINE.
AND, IN THAT DELAY, BITCOIN'S
EXCHANGE RATE HAD CHANGED, AND
NOW HER CHECK DIDN'T COVER THE
FULL $500 RANSOM, IT WAS ABOUT
$13 SHORT.
HER LAST RESORT WAS THIS BITCOIN
ATM MACHINE IN BROOKLYN, NY,
CONVENIENTLY NOT FAR FROM HER
DAUGHTER ALINA'S APARTMENT.
>> IT'S VERY KIND OF SPOOKY
LOOKING A.T.M.
IT HAS NO BUTTONS.
IT JUST HAD A SLOT THAT YOU FEED
YOUR MONEY INTO.
>> Reporter: TUESDAY AFTERNOON,
THE FULL RANSOM WAS SENT TO THE
HACKERS ACCOUNT.
BUT IT WAS TWO HOURS LATE.
INNA ADDED ONE SHORT MESSAGE
WITH HER PAYMENT.
>> I WROTE: "I WISH YOU ALL WILL
DROP DEAD."
>> Reporter: THE F.B.I. DOESN'T
HAVE COMPLETE DATA ON HOW OFTEN
THESE ATTACKS OCCUR.
COMPUTER SECURITY RESEARCHERS
ESTIMATE CLOSE TO A MILLION
USERS HAVE BEEN HIT GLOBALLY
DURING THE LAST YEAR.
ONE TECH FIRM ESTIMATES THAT
MORE THAN A QUARTER OF VICTIMS
PAY THE RANSOM, WHICH CYBER
SECURITY EXPERTS DISCOURAGE
BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT TO
ENCOURAGE MORE HACKING.
AND IT'S NOT JUST INDIVIDUALS
WHO GET HIT: HACKERS HAVE HIT
SEVERAL LOCAL POLICE STATIONS.
WE HEARD OF LAW FIRMS BEING
TARGETED.
EVEN THE CITY OF DETROIT HAD ITS
DATA HELD FOR AN $800,000 RANSOM
BY HACKERS.
THE CITY DIDN'T PAY.
>> WHEN YOU THINK OF A
TECHNOLOGY HACK, YOU THINK OF
DATA OR FILES THAT ARE BEING
DESTROYED, OR TAKEN, RANSOMWARE,
I LEARNED, DOESN'T WORK THE WAY.
>> Reporter: LAST MONTH, TERRY
VAN ZOEREN HAD TO LEARN ALL
ABOUT RANSOMWARE WHEN HIS
SOUTHERN NEW JERSEY SCHOOL
DISTRICT GOT HIT.
HACKERS COMPROMISED THE ENTIRE
DISTRICT'S COMPUTER SYSTEM,
CAUSING PROBLEMS WITH HARD
DRIVES THROUGHOUT THE SYSTEM:
ADMINISTRATORS, THOSE IN THE
CLASSROOMS, THE COMPUTERS THAT
PROCESSED KIDS' LUNCH PAYMENTS,
EVEN THE STANDARDIZED TESTS THAT
WERE GOING ON WHEN THE HACK
OCCURRED.
>> WE HAD TO SHUT DOWN STUDENT
TESTING FOR A NUMBER OF DAYS
UNTIL WE GOT CONTROL OF THE
P.C.s.
AND THERE WERE 100s OF P.C.s
IN THE DISTRICT.
>> Reporter: VAN ZOEREN SAID THE
HACKERS DEMANDED 500 BITCOIN,
WHICH AT THE TIME WAS ABOUT
$128,000 IN RANSOM.
SCHOOL OFFICIALS DIDN'T PAY.
THERE'S OBVIOUSLY NO GUARANTEE
PAYING UP GETS YOUR DATA BACK.
INSTEAD, THEY CALLED THE LOCAL
POLICE.
SCHOOL OFFICIALS SAYS NO STUDENT
OR PARENT DATA WAS STOLEN, AND
AFTER A COSTLY, ELABORATE
REBUILDING OF THEIR NETWORK,
THEY WERE ABLE TO GET BACK UP
AND RUNNING.
NYU COMPUTER SCIENTIST JUSTIN
CAPPOS SAYS HACKERS GO AFTER
SUCH SEEMINGLY SMALL TARGETS
BECAUSE THEY'RE PRETTY EASY:
VICTIMS OFTEN INADVERTENTLY
DOWNLOAD THE VIRUSES THEMSELVES
BY CLICKING ON THOSE EMAIL
ATTACHMENTS.
BESIDES, HE SAYS, THE RISKS OF
GETTING CAUGHT ARE LOW, AND IF
YOU CAST A WIDE ENOUGH NET,
YOU'LL GET SOMETHING.
>> WHEN YOU GO FISHING, YOU
DON'T TRY TO CATCH EVERY FISH IN
THE OCEAN.
YOU ONLY WANNA CATCH SOME.
AND IF YOU CATCH ENOUGH OF THEM,
THEN IT'S BEEN A PROFITABLE TRIP
FOR YOU.
>> Reporter: WHEN HER MOM GOT
HACKED, ALINA SIMONE, WHO'S A
JOURNALIST BY DAY, DID SOME
RESEARCH INTO RANSOMWARE FOR A
PIECE SHE WROTE FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES.
SHE SAYS IT'S ALARMING HOW
ORGANIZED AND EASY IT IS TO
CARRY OUT THESE KINDS OF
ATTACKS.
>> THERE ARE PEOPLE MAKING
VIRUSES, SELLING VIRUSES.
THERE ARE DISTRIBUTORS WHOSE
SPECIALTY IS DISTRIBUTING
VIRUSES.
THESE PERPETRATORS, THEY DON'T
HAVE TO KNOW A LINE OF CODE.
THEY CAN JUST BUY A VIRUS AND
THEN HIRE A DISTRIBUTOR AND SEND
IT OUT.
AND IT'S KIND OF JUST AN OFF THE
SHELF, YOU KNOW--
>> Reporter: WOW.
PLUG AND PLAY CORRUPTION.
>> RIGHT.
AND SO THAT'S SORT OF THE
SCARIEST THING THAT, JUST ONE
PERSON CAN JUST UNLEASH ALL OF
THIS CHAOS AND MALICE ON THE
WORLD WITH VERY LITTLE EFFORT.
>> Reporter: HER MOM'S STORY,
HOWEVER, WASN'T OVER.
INNA HAD PAID THE HACKERS $500,
BUT RATHER THAN RELEASING HER
FILES AS PROMISED, THEY SENT HER
THIS MESSAGE.
IT SAID, "YOU DID NOT PAY IN
TIME FOR DECRYPTION."
REMEMBER, SHE'D PAID TWO HOURS
LATE, NOW THE HACKERS DOUBLED
THE RANSOM TO $1,000, GAVE HER
ANOTHER DEADLINE, AND SAID IF
SHE MISSED THIS ONE, THEY'D
DELETE EVERYTHING.
>> IF YOU WON'T PAY BY THEN, ALL
YOUR FILES ARE GONE FOREVER.
>> Reporter: USING A MESSAGE
BOARD THE HACKERS PROVIDED,
ANOTHER CUSTOMER-FRIENDLY TOUCH,
INNA PLEADED WITH THE PEOPLE
SHE'D PREVIOUSLY TOLD TO '¡DROP
DEAD:' "WE HAD A SNOWSTORM," "IT
WAS A HOLIDAY" AND LASTLY: "I AM
ONLY TWO HOURS LATE!"
>> SO FIRST I SENT THEM ABOUT
ALL THESE OBSTACLES AND THE FACT
THAT I WAS ONLY TWO HOURS LATE
AND THIS IS REALLY HARSH.
>> Reporter: DID THIS FEEL
STRANGE THAT YOU'RE TRYING TO
COMMUNICATE TO A GROUP OF
CRIMINALS, WHO KNOWS WHERE THEY
ARE IN THE WORLD, SAYING "YOU
DON'T UNDERSTAND, THE POST
OFFICE, THE SNOW, THANKSGIVING,
THE LONG WEEKEND" I MEAN YOU
MUST'VE FELT-
>> BUT WHAT ELSE?
I MEAN, THIS IS THE ONLY OPTION.
IT'S EITHER THIS OR NOTHING.
>> Reporter: YOU DIDN'T THINK IT
WOULD WORK.
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
>> Reporter: BUT LATER THAT DAY,
THE HACKERS RELEASED HER FILES
IN FULL.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT CAN YOU DO
TO PROTECT YOURSELF FROM BEING
HACKED?
WATCH OUR VIDEO GUIDE ON
FACEBOOK AT
facebook.com/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS PAST WEEK
WAS THE 70TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
LIBERATION OF THE BERGEN-BELSEN
CONCENTRATION CAMP IN GERMANY,
WHERE AN ESTIMATED 50,000 PEOPLE
DIED.
AMONG ITS VICTIMS: ANNE FRANK.
TO MARK THE ANNIVERSARY,
I.T.V.'S NEIL CONNERY CAUGHT UP
WITH ONE OF HER CHILDHOOD
FRIENDS, WHO WAS REUNITED WITH
ANNE IN THE CAMP SHORTLY BEFORE
ANNE DIED.
>> I WAS THE LAST FRIEND,
SCHOOLMATE OF ANNE FRACK TO
SEE HER.
>> NANETTE KONIG WILL NEVER
FORGET THE LAST TIME SHE SAW
ANNE FRACK, AMID THE HORROR
OF THE HOLOCAUST, A BITTER
SWEAT REUNION FOR TWO GIRLS
JUST 15.
>> SHE WAS ONLY A SKELETON.
THERE WAS NOTHING LEFT OF
HER, NOTHING.
I EVEN WONDER SOMETIMES HOW
COULD TWO SKELETONS HAVE
RECOGNIZED ONE ANOTHER.
BECAUSE BOTH OF US WERE JUST,
YOU KNOW, WE WERE BOTH
STARVED TO DEATH.
>> NANETTE WATCHED ANNE
RECEIVE THE DIARY AT A
BIRTHDAY PARTY.
SHE RECALLS ANNE
DETERMINATION IN THE CAMP
THAT ITS STORY DETAILING HER
LIFE IN HIDING FROM THE
NAZIS WOULD LIVE ON.
>> SHE TOLD ME THAT SHE HAD
CONTINUED TO WRITE THE BOOK,
AND THAT SHE WOULD LIKE TO
PUBLISH THE BOOK AFTER THE
WAR.
>> 70 YEARS AGO BRITISH
TROOPS HELPED TO LIBERATE
-- WHERE MORE THAN 70,000
PEOPLE DIED DURING THE
HOLOCAUST.
>> AICHBE FRACK LOST HER
LIFE SHORTLY BEFORE THE CAMP
WAS LIBERATED.
>> I CAN'T REMEMBER WHETHER
WE CRIED OR NOT.
WE JUST FELL INTO ONE
ANOTHER'S ARMS.
WE HUGGED ONE ANOTHER.
WE WERE, YOU KNOW, IT WAS
VERY DIFFICULT.
WE JUST SORT OF HELD ON TO
ONE ANOTHER, I GUESS.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE
NEWS BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU
TONIGHT, HUNDREDS GATHERED
TODAY IN OKLAHOMA CITY TO
COULD THEM RATE THE 20th
ANNIVERSARY OF THE BOMBING
OF THE ALFRED P MURROW
FEDERAL BUILDING THERE, 168
PEOPLE INCLUDING 19 CHILDREN
WERE KILLED IN WHAT WAS THE
DEADLIEST ACT OF DOMESTIC
TERRORISM IN THE NATION'S
HISTORY.
AND ONCOLOGISTS SAY A NEW
BLOOD TEST HAS PROVEN
RELIABLE DIAGNOSING SEVERAL
TYPES OF CANCER, ACCORDING
TO THE "NEW YORK TIMES".
THE TEST CALLED A LIQUID
BIOPSY, ALTERNATIVE TO A
TRADITIONAL BIOPSY PREDICTED
RECURRENCES 3 MONTHS BEFORE
ON A CT SCAN.
THAT'S IT.
JOIN US TONIGHT ON AIR AND
ONLINE TOMORROW.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
GOOD NIGHT.